Title: Setting Up Pelican
Date: 2014-11-11 20:00
Category: sornars.com
Tags: aws, pelican, python

So a quick update this week. I'm not going to spend a lot of time going over how to setup pelican. The [docs](http://docs.getpelican.com/en/3.5.0/) do a pretty good job of explaining the process. Once you're set up locally the next step for is to pick out a theme. [This repository](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican-themes) has plenty of themes to choose from. The truth is the templates used by pelican are pretty straightforward so modifying an existing theme or making one from scratch is not a tremendous amount of effort. This blog currently uses dev-random2; the only necessary modifications involved translating some of the hard coded pieces into English.

Pelican configurations are handled in your pelicanconf.py and publishconf.py files. These files allow you to set separate options for local testing and production output - any settings in pelicanconf.py can be overwritten in publishconf.py when pushing to production. Feel free to take a look at this site as hosted on [github](https://github.com/sornars/sornars.com).

Once you're all set up the only step left is to write some content! Pelican comes with a Makefile and fabfile.py to work with make and fabric respectively. These make it easy to generate the output from your markdown or restructured text files and even have some hooks to ease the deployment process. I'm currently using make s3_upload to deploy to Amazon Web Services (AWS). I'll be talking about setting up S3 for hosting a static site in my next post.
