Title: Your First Domain
Date: 2015-01-10 20:05
Category: sornars.com
Tags: domains, dns, namecheap

Buying a domain is another straightforward process. When registering this site I chose to go with [Namecheap](http://www.namecheap.com/?aff=79974) after hearing several positive reviews online. The act of buying a domain on Namecheap is simple, search for whatever domain you'd like and scoop it up. Most domains can be had for under $10 so there's no reason to not get all of your favourites while you're searching.

One important thing to note when buying a domain is that the purchaser's information including the full name, email and billing address used to purchase the domain will be put into the public WHOIS registry. Most domain registrar's offer a protection service in which the domain will be registered through a third party company in order to prevent this information from being publicly visible; however, the risk is that should you ever lose access to the domain you might have a hard time proving that it was ever yours to begin with!

Once you've got your domain purchased you can login to the domain administrator's panel. It's here that you can point your domain to whichever hosting service you'd like to use. In my previous post I showed you how to set up a static site on Amazon's S3 service. Following up from that example, I'm going to show you how to point your newly purchased domain to direct users to this site.

The next thing you're going to need to decide is how you'd like your site to deal with the www prefix. You need to settle on whether you'd like the www to be included in the site's URL or whether you'd rather leave it off. Whichever you choose, you should ideally set up your domain to redirect to the other to improve SEO and usability. For this site I chose to stick with the classic www as seen in the URL of your browser. Whatever you choose, your admin panel is going to present you with a choice between the "@" and "www" hostnames. One of these needs to be configured to point to the other using a 301 redirect. The second one will be your canonical domain for your site. This hostname should be set to point to your hosted site using a CNAME (Alias). For S3 this will usually come in the following format: '{bucket.name}.s3-website-{server-location}.amazonaws.com.'. 

And with that you're done. Wait a few minutes for the changes to propagate through the DNS and then fire up your browser. Your new site should be up and running and your brand new domain. 
